at its most philosophical this video is
about the question of is it better to do
something good something morally
virtuous or is it better to be fair to
be fair and consistent because sometimes
if we want to be fair it's going to
prevent us from doing something we
perceive to be virtuous if I help just
one student in my classroom when I'm a
teacher if I help just a few students
that I select out of my hundreds of
students can't I be accused of
favoritism and I can say back hey I'm
doing something virtuous I'm helping
this student who needs the help and
maybe you didn't ask for help I can't
help everyone I have 300 students I just
picked these few and I'm helping them
yeah but is it more important to do
something virtuous or is it more
important to be fair my name is ISIL
measured that in the background is a
very realistic toy representing Socrates
I'm making the transition to doing kind
of a weekly political analysis show here
but this is one story I didn't think
would fit into a news of the week style
episode the news coming out of Europe at
its least philosophical is about the
tough talk from French president
Emmanuel macron that Europe is no longer
naive Europe is no longer Zhijun and its
foreign policy towards China and it's
economic policy towards China Europe is
now talking tough about China as never
before and none of the newspaper
articles I saw actually quoted analyzed
or discussed the 10-point action plan
that the European Union has now put
forward in its some economic -
geopolitical conflict with with China
point one of that action plan a plan
that is above all else and insult to the
meaning of the word action in English
end of digression 0.1 says that Europe
is going to demand that China live up to
some unstated standard of human rights
now here's the problem
there may be a sort of ethical conflict
in my role as a teacher if I reach out
to an
help some students and not others
favoritism uh but Europe is not the
world's teacher Europe is not the tutor
to the world in human rights or
democracy and if it wanted to be it
would raise real questions of ethical
consistency and fairness at the same
time absolutely simultaneously with this
sort of toothless and vague demand that
Europe has made for China to live up to
some standard of human rights is a much
harder to resist form of economics
weijin being imposed upon cambodia the
tiny poverty-stricken powerless country
of Cambodia the Cambodia ought to live
up to European standards of democracy
now my point here is not that it would
be immoral for Cambodia to become a
democracy no no no not my perspective at
all however I'm troubled that in the
year 2019 in a transitional period when
basically the world has become
disaffected with neoliberalism but no
particular ideology has replaced
neoliberalism neoliberalism is in this
long Twilight period especially since
the year 2008 when nobody believes in it
anymore but there there is nothing else
around it's even just a set of pragmatic
guiding principles for Western powers
nobody knows what the game plan is well
without any game plan the game being
played seems to consist of bullying
small powerless countries like North
Korea Cuba and Cambodia while large and
economically powerful company countries
like Saudi Arabia and China face no
consequences for what are fundamentally
the same problems and again I've been a
school teacher I was teaching English in
a university classroom in China and I
remember there was one student who was
born deaf and I said to her look let's
take the time I'll give you some special
tutoring you obviously you were born
here
impaired she had some kind of surgery to
improve her hearing or something I'm can
meet with you and I can help you with
pronouncing these words properly because
you're having problems other students
are not going to have never did a
student stand up and object and say hey
this this one student is getting special
treatment for no justifiable reason and
the reason for that is of course it was
justifiable this was a student with
special needs and I was making a special
effort and everyone there recognized
that you are not really going to get the
same ethical justification for why the
lack of democracy in Cambodia is
punishable with these consequences and
not the lack of democracy in China or
Saudi Arabia now Europe has its own
self-interest the economy of Europe is
not going to suffer if Europe now takes
basically punitive economic measures
against Cambodia measures that will
definitely make Cambodia a poorer
country Cambodia will suffer
consequences and Europe will not by
contrast if the same sorts of measures
were imposed on China if there were
punitive economic measures basically
obstacles to trade were created between
Europe and China there would not only be
economic consequences for China there
would be very great consequences for
Europe we can say the same of Saudi
Arabia because of course the value of
Saudi Arabia's oil exports the
downstream impacts the economy for that
are very very great indeed what would
happen to Europe if they all decided
that for the sake of human rights for
the sake of democracy they would stop
using cellular phones that were
manufactured in China that might be a
real and meaningful sacrifice and it
might test people's commitment to the
ideology of democracy and human rights
if it's not worth using a slightly more
expensive cellular phone what is it
worth on the other hand nobody in Europe
will notice if Cambodia
rice disappears from the grocery stores
or um you know fully manufactured goods
export from Cambodia Cambodia actually
does have quite a big garment industry
there are people right now in Europe who
are wearing winter coats that are
stitched in factories in Cambodia shoes
also you may not even know it if you
didn't check the label but yeah some of
those goods but those Goods can of
course be made all over the world Europe
is not gonna go cold in the middle of
winter because they no longer have ski
jackets that are stitched in the
factories of Phnom Penh Cambodia so
there's a problem here and people react
to the problem as a form of hypocrisy so
I have to ask punitive actions taken by
Europe taken by the United States of
America in the name of human rights and
democracy is this moral is this virtuous
in and of itself and then if it is if
you think yeah you know trade policy and
even maybe military intervention trade
policy at the least if you think it
should be used as a carrot and stick
form of incentivization to try to force
the whole world to measure up to certain
minimum standards of democracy and human
rights then the next question becomes
why is it only some students in the
classroom that the teacher is singling
out for whipping why is it only the
students who don't have rich parents who
can arrange to have the teacher whipped
in return
yeah I'm stretching the allegory but I
think you know what I mean
if it is not worth it to Europe to take
some risk to face some consequences of
its own in imposing economic sanctions
on others in the name of democracy and
human rights then I would say to you
Europe's ideology of democracy and human
rights is nothing worth it is apparently
not even worth the inconvenience of
trying to get a cellular phone
manufactured somewhere outside of China
maybe somewhere like right here
where I am right now in Taiwan